[Edit] Python: Pandas: .to_datetime() (#7037)
Codecademy/docs: content/pandas/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/to-datetime/to-datetime.md

## Syntax

```pseudo
pandas.to_datetime(arg, errors='raise', dayfirst=False, yearfirst=False,
                   utc=False, format=None, exact=<no_default>, unit=None,
                   infer_datetime_format=<no_default>, origin='unix', cache=True)
```

**Parameters:**

- `arg`: The object to convert to `datetime`. Can be scalar, array-like, Series, or `DataFrame`/dict-like
- `errors`: How to handle parsing errors - 'raise' (default), 'coerce', or 'ignore'
- `dayfirst`: Boolean, if True parses dates with day first (e.g., "31/12/2023" as Dec 31)
- `yearfirst`: Boolean, if True parses dates with year first when ambiguous
- `utc`: Boolean, if True returns UTC `DatetimeIndex`
- `format`: String format to parse the datetime (e.g., '%Y-%m-%d')
- `exact`: Boolean, if True requires exact format match
- `unit`: Unit for numeric timestamps ('D', 's', 'ms', 'us', 'ns')
- `infer_datetime_format`: Boolean, attempts to infer format for faster parsing (deprecated)
- `origin`: Reference date for numeric values, default 'unix' (1970-01-01)
- `cache`: Boolean, use cache for improved performance with duplicate values

> **Return value:**
> 
> The function returns datetime-like objects depending on input type:
> 
> - **Scalar input**: Returns pandas Timestamp
> - **Array-like input**: Returns DatetimeIndex
> - **Series input**: Returns Series with datetime64[ns] dtype
> - **DataFrame input**: Returns Series with datetime64[ns] dtype from assembled columns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Return value:**

The function returns datetime-like objects depending on input type:

- **Scalar input**: Returns pandas Timestamp
- **Array-like input**: Returns `DatetimeIndex`
- **Series input**: Returns Series with `datetime64[ns]` dtype
- **`DataFrame` input**: Returns Series with `datetime64[ns]` dtype from assembled columns
```

> ## Example 1: Basic String Conversion Using `.to_datetime()`
> 
> This example demonstrates the fundamental usage of `.to_datetime()` for converting date strings into pandas datetime objects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 1: Basic String Conversion Using `.to_datetime()`

The following example demonstrates the fundamental usage of `.to_datetime()` for converting date strings into pandas `datetime` objects:
```

```py
import pandas as pd

# Create a Series with various date string formats
date_strings = pd.Series(['2023-01-15', '2023-02-20', '2023-03-25', '2023-04-30'])

# Convert string dates to datetime objects
converted_dates = pd.to_datetime(date_strings)

print("Original strings:")
print(date_strings)
print("\nConverted to datetime:")
print(converted_dates)
print(f"\nData type: {converted_dates.dtype}")
```

The output produced by this code will be:

```shell
Original strings:
0    2023-01-15
1    2023-02-20
2    2023-03-25
3    2023-04-30
dtype: object

Converted to datetime:
0   2023-01-15
1   2023-02-20
2   2023-03-25
3   2023-04-30
dtype: datetime64[ns]

Data type: datetime64[ns]
```

This example shows how `.to_datetime()` automatically recognizes standard date formats and converts them to pandas datetime objects. The resulting Series has `datetime64[ns]` dtype, enabling time-based operations and analysis.

## Example 2: Financial Data Processing

> This example shows how to process financial data with mixed date formats and handle missing values, a common scenario in real-world datasets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to process financial data with mixed date formats and handle missing values, a common scenario in real-world datasets:
```

    dayfirst=False    # Assume month comes first in ambiguous dates
)

# Display the processed data
print("Financial data with processed dates:")
print(financial_data)

# Check for any missing dates after conversion
missing_dates = financial_data['trade_date'].isna().sum()
print(f"\nNumber of invalid dates converted to NaT: {missing_dates}")

# Filter out rows with invalid dates for analysis
clean_data = financial_data.dropna(subset=['trade_date'])
print(f"\nClean data shape: {clean_data.shape}")
```

The output of this code is:

```shell
Financial data with processed dates:
   trade_date  stock_price    volume
0  2023-01-15       150.25   1000000
1  2023-02-15       155.80   1200000
2  2023-03-25       148.90    950000
3        NaT       152.10   1100000
4  2023-04-30       159.75   1300000

Number of invalid dates converted to NaT: 1

Clean data shape: (4, 3)
```

This example demonstrates handling real-world financial data where dates might be in different formats or contain invalid entries. Using `errors='coerce'` converts unparseable dates to NaT (Not a Time), allowing the analysis to continue with valid data.

## Codebyte Example: Sensor Data Time Series Analysis

> This example processes sensor data with Unix timestamps and demonstrates creating a time series index for scientific data analysis:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example processes sensor data with Unix timestamps and demonstrates creating a time series index for scientific data analysis:
```
